# ECG Classification
Raw ECG classification of a time-series imbalanced NaN dataset
For detailed code and project description check the ["Task3.ipynb"](https://github.com/cantonioupao/ecg-classification/blob/main/Task3.ipynb)

# Method
For the classification of ECG signals of 4 different classes sampled at 300Hz, we applied many different methods. Initially the training data were imputed with the median value per feature for all the missing values. Features with 98% missing values and above, were discarded. A Random Forest, a SVC (weighted classes) and a Logistic regression were implemented, leading to low cross-validation scores of 50%, 56%,57% equivalently. This method performed quite poorly (as expected for time series data). Then a different approach was followed, using the bioSPPY library and FFT stats to better handle the ECG signal and deal with the time component. Manual feature extraction was performed related to range, variance, standard deviation and power. Also the P, Q, R, S, T peaks were extracted along with their time intervals and some further related statistics were calculated for these. The missing values were ignored for some signals or imputed by the closest available value for examples that not many time stamps were missing. Only around half of the first 8500 time stamps were used for extracting features from the signals. Following the manual extraction, any features that contained missing or too large infinity values were discarded before parsing them for training and testing. The classifiers used were XGB , LGBM and Gradient Boosting along with a voting classifier. The metrics used to assess the CV performance of the proposed models, were the F1-micro average score and the Confusion matrix.
